Ray outbound (#194)
golemfactory/golem-docs: src/pages/docs/creators/ray/outbound.md

https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafkreiemev2isidd7gk7352wxtqh6rwbuumt4vgnkkbx5wi6giaizt2bvq -> R
https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafkreigks6arfsq3xxfpvqrrwonchxcnu6do76auprhhfomao6c273sixm -> a
https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafkreifb7tsdmocu76eiz72lrz4hlvqayjuchecbfkgppgzx2cyrcsfq7i -> y
https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafkreiaplag3id7ckuzs6eiwca3skuheddup7p7espat5omqv6r7m2byhi ->  on
https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafkreibthyfb4j4blugo5zk4i476hxet2vwghy564kz3jlxi53lnoamrum -> G
https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafkreidfy5gbljugdb53no7zswhust6gxaagqa2kmwnjvvcjsgyiywhs2i -> o
https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafkreifmvsdmbzqjzkig6yzlbyw2ztfsw56sfmdcd4qox3hbusbvxe7w6a -> l
https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafkreib7pg5xwq23auzbmuo257jxjtogqhoan6vgly3u4obtpoemubdn5i -> e
https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafkreidcyzvhuxoxbqyumymampbujzjr43kllhrxtaeeiphjmkz2xvr4li -> m
https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafkreibwvht7dsk3ql73tf2d4dc4jtuv3a6juqykvrm7qtxtzp5lmfcqna ->
https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafkreihwavxppciktfeuynevdal4f3kp2nqivbei54fon4vpvsj625ufjy -> rocks
https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafkreif3oielzg25pqcpci3kqkqasos6gp2aii6vxkguezxxbewdxjb3mi -> !
Ray on Golem rocks!
```

### Running the example on Ray on Golem cluster

> Now that we have the app ready, we need to start the cluster to execute it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's now spin up a Ray on Golem cluster to launch our newly-hatched application.
```

The first step is adding the `"https://ipfs.io"` to `outbound_urls` property in the cluster yaml.

You can either update your cluster yaml or download one from [the repository](https://github.com/golemfactory/golem-ray/blob/main/examples/ipfs-golem-cluster.yaml).
The linked config is a version of the [example Ray on Golem cluster yaml](https://github.com/golemfactory/golem-ray/blob/main/golem-cluster.yaml) with:
```yaml
outbound_urls: ["https://pypi.dev.golem.network", "https://ipfs.io"]
```

> The second step is `ray up ipfs-golem-cluster.yaml`, followed by the execution of the script:
> ```bash
> ray submit golem-cluster.yaml simple-outbound-ipfs.py

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second step is actually starting the cluster.

`ray up ipfs-golem-cluster.yaml`

With that done, you can submit the script to run it:

`ray submit golem-cluster.yaml simple-outbound-ipfs.py`
```

https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafkreiemev2isidd7gk7352wxtqh6rwbuumt4vgnkkbx5wi6giaizt2bvq -> R
https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafkreigks6arfsq3xxfpvqrrwonchxcnu6do76auprhhfomao6c273sixm -> a
https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafkreifb7tsdmocu76eiz72lrz4hlvqayjuchecbfkgppgzx2cyrcsfq7i -> y
https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafkreiaplag3id7ckuzs6eiwca3skuheddup7p7espat5omqv6r7m2byhi ->  on
https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafkreibthyfb4j4blugo5zk4i476hxet2vwghy564kz3jlxi53lnoamrum -> G
https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafkreidfy5gbljugdb53no7zswhust6gxaagqa2kmwnjvvcjsgyiywhs2i -> o
https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafkreifmvsdmbzqjzkig6yzlbyw2ztfsw56sfmdcd4qox3hbusbvxe7w6a -> l
https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafkreib7pg5xwq23auzbmuo257jxjtogqhoan6vgly3u4obtpoemubdn5i -> e
https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafkreidcyzvhuxoxbqyumymampbujzjr43kllhrxtaeeiphjmkz2xvr4li -> m
https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafkreibwvht7dsk3ql73tf2d4dc4jtuv3a6juqykvrm7qtxtzp5lmfcqna ->
https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafkreihwavxppciktfeuynevdal4f3kp2nqivbei54fon4vpvsj625ufjy -> rocks
https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafkreif3oielzg25pqcpci3kqkqasos6gp2aii6vxkguezxxbewdxjb3mi -> !
Ray on Golem rocks!
Shared connection to 192.168.0.3 closed.
```

Failing outbound calls would get logged to the console and retried. 

> Note that it may happen that one or more calls would hang for a couple of minutes eventually displaying `[Errno -3] Temporary failure in name resolution)`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that it may sometimes happen that one or more requests hangs for a couple of minutes, eventually displaying `[Errno -3] Temporary failure in name resolution)`.
```

These are known issues, hopefully they will be resolved soon.

### Congratulations!

You have now run the simple outbound example, and hopefully seen the expected outcome - `Ray on Golem rocks!` line which is constructed from the contents of 12 files hosted on IPFS.

Now is the time to stop the cluster with `ray down ipfs-golem-cluster.yaml`, and that is it.

Well done!

## Conclussion

In this article you:

> - learned about the theory of accessing the Internet with Ray on Golem

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- learned the basics of accessing arbitrary external URLs with Ray on Golem
```

> - learned that by default we allow whitelisted domains

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- learned about the domain whitelists used by the providers
```

Feel free to check out the general [Accessing the Internet from Golem providers](/docs/creators/javascript/guides/accessing-internet) guide to get more context not related to Ray on Golem.

Please reach out to us on [`#Ray on Golem` discord channel](https://chat.golem.network/) to discuss the options and help us define the best way to support your outbound needs.

## Default whitelist

Please have a look at the [default whitelist](https://github.com/golemfactory/ya-installer-resources/tree/main/whitelist) yourself.

Among the listed entries you can find `dl.dropboxusercontent.com`, `ipfs.io` - they should allow a certain level of freedom when storing artifacts needed by your Ray on Golem applications.
You can upload the data your computation needs to Dropbox or IPFS and then use it in your remote tasks. This is demonstrated in the [example below](#simple-outbound-example)

One of the ways that Ray on Golem uses the whitelist is to enable installation of [additional packages](/docs/creators/ray/cluster-yaml#initialization-commands) with pip. 
Golem Factory runs a custom proxy to `pypi.org` via `pypi.dev.golem.network` to make it possible.

> When your application requires access to a non-whitelisted URL, the recommended way is to advertise your need on [`#providers` discord channel](https://chat.golem.network/).

Reviewer 2: Could it be beneficial to suggest to the requester that they review the documentation available at https://docs.golem.network/docs/providers/configuration/outbound#whitelisting-a-specific-domain? This resource explains how providers can whitelist a domain.

Author: good point, addeded the link :heart:

(get_url pid=1069, ip=10.42.42.2) https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafkreifmvsdmbzqjzkig6yzlbyw2ztfsw56sfmdcd4qox3hbusbvxe7w6a -> l
(get_url pid=1069, ip=10.42.42.2) https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafkreib7pg5xwq23auzbmuo257jxjtogqhoan6vgly3u4obtpoemubdn5i -> e
(get_url pid=1069, ip=10.42.42.2) https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafkreidcyzvhuxoxbqyumymampbujzjr43kllhrxtaeeiphjmkz2xvr4li -> m
(get_url pid=930, ip=10.42.42.2) https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafkreidfy5gbljugdb53no7zswhust6gxaagqa2kmwnjvvcjsgyiywhs2i -> o
(get_url pid=1069, ip=10.42.42.2) https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafkreibwvht7dsk3ql73tf2d4dc4jtuv3a6juqykvrm7qtxtzp5lmfcqna ->
(get_url pid=1069, ip=10.42.42.2) https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafkreihwavxppciktfeuynevdal4f3kp2nqivbei54fon4vpvsj625ufjy -> rocks

Ray on Golem rocks!
(get_url pid=1069, ip=10.42.42.2) https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafkreif3oielzg25pqcpci3kqkqasos6gp2aii6vxkguezxxbewdxjb3mi -> !
Shared connection to 192.168.0.3 closed.
```

Failing outbound calls would get logged to the console and retried. 
Note that it may sometimes happen that one or more requests hangs for a couple of minutes, eventually displaying `[Errno -3] Temporary failure in name resolution)`.

> These are known issues, hopefully they will be resolved soon.

Reviewer 2: I think the word **hopefully** sounds like we are not going to fix it or atleast are not taking responsibility for it.
